[libbeat] Document the disk queue settings (#22245)
elastic/beats: libbeat/docs/queueconfig.asciidoc

The default value is 1s.

[float]
[[configuration-internal-queue-disk]]
=== Configure the disk queue

beta[]

The disk queue stores pending events on the disk rather than main memory.
This allows Beats to queue a larger number of events than is possible with
the memory queue, and to save events when a Beat or device is restarted.
This increased reliability comes with a performance tradeoff, as every
incoming event must be written and read from the device's disk. However,
for setups where the disk is not the main bottleneck, the disk queue gives
a simple and relatively low-overhead way to add a layer of robustness to
incoming event data.

The disk queue is expected to replace the file spool in a future release.

> The disk queue can be enabled with default settings by specifying a maximum
> size:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the disk queue with default settings, specify a maximum size:
```

[source,yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
queue.disk:
  max_size: 10GB
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The queue will use up to the specified maximum size on disk. It will only
use as much space as required. For example, if the queue is only storing
1GB of events, then it will only occupy 1GB on disk no matter how high the
maximum is. Queue data is deleted from disk after it has been successfully
sent to the output.

[float]
[[configuration-internal-queue-disk-reference]]
==== Configuration options

You can specify the following options in the `queue.disk` section of the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
===== `path`

> The path to the directory in which the disk queue should store its data files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The path to the directory where the disk queue should store its data files.
```

The directory is created on startup if it doesn't exist.

The default value is `"${path.data}/diskqueue"`.

[float]
===== `max_size` (required)

The maximum size the queue should use on disk. Events that exceed this

> this maximum will either pause their input or be discarded, depending on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
maximum will either pause their input or be discarded, depending on
```

Reviewer: repeated word

the input's configuration.

A value of `0` means that no maximum size is enforced, and the queue can
grow up to the amount of free space on the disk. This value should be used
with caution, as completely filling a system's main disk can make it
inoperable. It is best to use this setting only with a dedicated data or
backup partition that will not interfere with {beatname_uc} or the rest
of the host system.

The default value is `10GB`.

[float]
===== `segment_size`

> Data added to the queue is stored in "segment files." Each segment contains

Reviewer: I don't think "segment files" needs to have quotes.

> Data added to the queue is stored in "segment files." Each segment contains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data added to the queue is stored in segment files. Each segment contains
```

all its events are sent. By default, segment size is limited to 1/10 of the
maximum queue size. Using a smaller size means that the queue will use more
data files, but they will be deleted more quickly after use. Using a larger
size means some data will take longer to delete, but the queue will use
fewer auxiliary files. It is usually fine to leave this value unchanged.

The default value is `max_size / 10`.

[float]
===== `read_ahead`

The number of events that should be read from disk into memory while
waiting for an output to request them. If you find outputs are slowing
down because they can't read as many events at a time, adjusting this
setting upward may help, at the cost of higher memory usage.

The default value is `512`.

[float]
===== `write_ahead`

The number of events the queue should accept and store in memory while
waiting for them to be written to disk. If you find the queue's memory
use is too high because events are waiting too long to be written to
disk, adjusting this setting downward may help, at the cost of reduced
event throughput. On the other hand, if inputs are waiting or discarding

> events becausd they are being produced faster than the disk can handle,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
events because they are being produced faster than the disk can handle,
```

adjusting this setting upward may help, at the cost of higher memory
usage.

The default value is `2048`.

[float]
===== `retry_interval`

Some disk errors may block operation of the queue, for example a permission

> error writing to the data directory, or a disk-full error while writing an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
error writing to the data directory, or a disk full error while writing an
```

event. In this case, the queue reports the error and retries after pausing
for the time specified in `retry_interval`.

The default value is `1s` (one second).

[float]
===== `max_retry_interval`

When there are multiple consecutive errors writing to the disk, the queue
increases the retry interval by factors of 2 up to a maximum of
`max_retry_interval`. Increase this value if you are concerned about logging
too many errors or overloading the host system if the target disk becomes
unavailable for an extended time.

The default value is `30s` (thirty seconds).

[float]
[[configuration-internal-queue-spool]]
=== Configure the file spool queue

beta[]

NOTE: The disk queue offers similar functionality to the file spool with a
streamlined configuration and lower overhead. It is expected to replace the
file spool in a future release. While the file spool is still included for

> backward compatibility, new configurations should prefer the disk queue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
backward compatibility, new configurations should use the disk queue
```
